Over 1 million Americans dead, 50 million facing addiction in our country, a healthc care racket based on painkillers to cope with cultural decline. Under Biden, over 20 million illegal immigrants entered the United States in four years. The cartels were making $13 billion a year on human smuggling alone. Half of all jobs created during that administration went to foreignb born workers. half of all jobs to illegals. This was a systematic policy. Mexican cartels, Chinese triads, narco states, a globalist regime of law
firms, banks, and nos, and a US government totally complicit in our destruction, invasion, and occupation. This shadow economy suppressed wages, increased crime, and provided cover for a gang and cartel invasion that Washington refused to name, let alone confront. And all of that ended on January 20th, 2025. On his first day in office, President Trump designated the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations, equivalent to ISIS and al-Qaeda. Steven Miller said it at the America's Counter Cartel
Conference. The cartels that operate in this hemisphere are the ISIS and the al-Qaeda of the Western Hemisphere and should be treated just as brutally and just as ruthlessly as we treat those organizations. This is not the language of a public health crisis. That is a declaration of war. I'm Mike Stagger and I have been fighting against the drug culture for over 20 years. This is part two of a series on the war against the cartels. If you missed the first one, see the link below. If you want to help win this
war, subscribe to our newsletter in the description. Become a paying member to keep us independent and hit the like and subscribe buttons to promote these videos. Trump's national security strategy made the Donroe doctrine explicit. targeted deployments, including where necessary the use of lethal force to replace the failed law enforcement only strategy of the last several decades. This is not a law enforcement issue. This is a war. We don't need more lawyers. We need a comprehensive all of society war
mobilization. And that's what we have today. The 101st Airborne has been deployed to our southern border. Illegal crossings have collapsed to historic lows. Deportations, voluntary and involuntarily, totaled 2.5 million in 2025 alone. And that number is accelerating as illegal sanctuary city protections are dismantled and the political fifth column exposed. Currently, the IRS and the FBI are investigating the so-called charities that funded the riots in Minneapolis and Los Angeles. In September 2025, strikes
against drug smuggling vessels began in the Pacific and in the Gulf of America. By March 2026, there have been 45 strikes on 46 vessels. It's now hard to find more vessels. The DEA's 2025 numbers tell the story of a war being fought at scale. Over 80 million lethal doses of fentanyl have been seized at the border in fiscal year 2025 alone. enough to kill every man, woman, and child in the United States twice. We have a lot more work to do. It took decades to get here. 145,000 children, 145,000
have been rescued from the cartel's human smugglers. Half of the 300,000 children lost under Joe Biden's open borders regime. We have the lowest murder rate in the last hundred years. Let cops be cops and crime goes down. President Trump has made fentanyl and drugs a major focus of trade discussions with Canada and China as well as Mexico and Colombia. FBI director Cash Patel has met with his counterparts in China. Drugs are Sarah Carter has been actively coordinating with her Mexican counterparts. The cartel supply chain is
being strangled. The distribution pipelines that fed a decade of chemical massacre are being systematically dismantled. The regimes that tolerated or promoted this warfare are either being replaced or squeezed very hard. But interdiction is not the strategy. Dismantlement is. For years, Nicholas Maduro ran Venezuela as a narco state, the primary transit point for the Sinaloa triad access, a safe haven for FARC and ELN terrorists, the cartels out of Colombia. In a lightning operation that ended. The Maduro regime was
dismantled in a matter of days. The government ran Cartel of the Suns was decapitated. Maduro himself was taken into custody not by a process server but by a joint task force that understood the something the state department never did. A narco dictator is not a head of state. He is the head of a criminal enterprise. Within two months, Venezuela is in full cooperation with the United States. Investments are flowing in. A nation that was once a staging ground for the empire is now being rebuilt as a
major economic engine in the hemisphere. We are not violating sovereignty. We are restoring it to the Venezuelan people. That message then moved from Caracus north into the mountains of Halisco. For years, Nessio Osguer Cervantes Elmano had built the Halisco New Generation Cartel into a private army. armored vehicles, weaponized drone swarms, thousands of foot soldiers. He believed he had achieved tactical overmatch against the Mexican state. On February 22nd, 2026, the new doctrine knocked on his door. In a highintensity joint
kinetic operation, US military intelligence out of Tucson, coordinating with the Mexican National Guard, and the New Generation cartel was decapitated. This was not a police raid with a warrant. This was a military strike against a terrorist state. It was a brutal hourslong firefight. 33 Mexican Guardsmen, 33 gave their lives to reclaim their country's sovereignty. 33 men who understood exactly what they were fighting for. The operation was actually led by Mexico's security minister Omar Harfuk. the same man
Elmeno tried to assassinate when Haruk was chief of police in Mexico City. Harfuk took multiple bullet wounds in that attack but survived. He led the operation that finished Elmeno. This fight is personal for many in Mexico and that is exactly why we are winning because leadership is everything. It brings out the best in everyone who cares about the future and about our civilization. And US Mexico collaboration is steadily growing. 37,000 cartel members and gang criminals, 37,000 have been arrested in
Mexico in 2025 alone. 92 highlevel cartel figures have been extradited to the United States for federal prosecution. An unprecedented record. The border has been sealed. Ocean vessels struck. The narco dictator is in custody. The cartel commander is neutralized. This is going in the right direction. As Pete Hexath said at the counter cartel conference, under President Trump, for the first time in history, the Department of War is on the offense against narot terrorists. We will find, fix, and finish cartel
targets. Find, fix, finish. That is a targeting sequence. This is the language of a military campaign. Where the parallel narot terrorist state is being dismantled, the monopoly on force is being restored to the sovereign nations of the Americas. Patriotic forces in Mexico, in Venezuela, throughout the hemisphere are now rising. But military operations alone do not build a civilization. To understand what we are actually constructing, you need a doctrine. You need a framework and that framework is the real American
tradition. In 1823, a young republic made a declaration. Not a request, not a treaty, another declaration. President James Monroe, advised by his great Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams, said before a joint session of Congress, "The American continents are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European powers." Understand what this is. The United States in 1823 was 32 years old. By any conventional measure of power, we had very little business telling the empires
of Europe where they could and could not operate. Monroe said it anyway because this was never a defensive posture. This was a civilizational declaration like our Declaration of Independence. The Western Hemisphere was not a prize to be carved up by the powers of the old world. The Americas belonged to a different project. sovereign republics, free peoples, a new world that would not repeat the crimes of the old. At the same moment, from the south, Simone Bolivar, the great liberator, he freed six nations from Spanish rule, and he
fully supported this American commitment. Once the people of the South fought and won their own independence, then we, the United States, fully backed them up. We stood by the new nations of the Americas. We established a shield of sovereign nations. That was the Monroe Doctrine. And Lincoln applied it in practice when Napoleon III of France installed the Hapsburg puppet Maximleon as emperor of Mexico. During our civil war while we were fighting the civil war, Lincoln backed Mexican President Bonito Huarez. No
European power was going to use American distraction to reconquer what free peoples had already liberated. Not on our watch, not in our backyard, and not in our hemisphere. That was the Monroe Doctrine made operational. Then came McKinley. In September 1901, President William McKinley was in Buffalo, New York, the first city in the world to be electrified. Think about that. He was attending the Pan-American Exposition and the theme of that exposition was the industrial potential of the Americas.
The promise that this hemisphere could build a civilization that would far surpass anything the old world had ever produced. McKinley was a Lincoln Republican, a champion of the American system. high tariffs, massive industrial expansion, the belief that economic sovereignty and national greatness are inseparable. He was the most pro- labor president in American history, a genuine Christian patriot who believed that the development of nations, not their exploitation, was the very purpose of American power. Like Lincoln and
Hamilton, he was also a direct threat to the old world financial empire, the globalists. the British Empire. On September 6th, 1901, at that exposition, he was shot. Eight days later, he was dead. The assassin was an anarchist sponsored from London via terrorists like Emma Goldman. This was the same Benthamite networks that had spent a century working to ensure the Americas remained fragmented, debtridden, and philosophically disarmed. McKinley's death was not random. It was the removal of the last
president fully committed to the American system until now. But with his death instep Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy was not a product of the American system. He was a product of the old guard mentored by his uncle James Bullock, head of Confederate intelligence in England. and advised by his friend, British ambassador Cecil Spring Rice. His instincts were imperial, not Republican. In 1904, he issued what is called the Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. Monroe had declared the hemisphere off limits
to European colonization. Teddy inverted it. He announced that the United States would now intervene even militarily to ensure that those nations met their obligations to European creditors. Monroe said, "Keep the old world out." Teddy said, "We will collect their debts for them." In one stroke, the Shield for Independence became the enforcement arm of European banking. As General Smemedley Butler, the most decorated marine in American history, later wrote, "In war is a racket," the United States
military became, in his words, highass muscle for Wall Street. He could have said as easily London or JP Morgan. This was the birth of globalism in America. Not soon after we adopted the Federal Reserve central banking system and joined the war in Europe under Wedro Wilson. The true American cause in the Americas and in the world had been compromised by the killing of McKinley and the abandonment of the true American system. The Monroe Doctrine, the real American tradition, was subverted by British and globalist interests. They
used anarchists and terrorists. They used a banking crisis and financial control. They used decades of war. And they fragmented the Americas, creating the greatest threat to our nation and our civilization. Until now. The 2025 national security strategy names it directly. After years of neglect, the United States will reassert and enforce the Monroe Doctrine. This Trump corollary to the Monroe Doctrine is a common sense and potent restoration of American power and priorities. After years of neglect, this
administration isn't pretending that betrayal didn't happen. It is naming it and it is reversing it not as nostalgia, not as symbolism, but as an active, operational and enforcable doctrine. The Trump corollary is the answer, the antidote to the Roosevelt corollary. Where Roosevelt turned Monroe inside out to serve European creditors, Trump is turning it right side up to serve the sovereign peoples of the Americas, whether it's IMF debt collectors or benamite drug lords. But doctrine
requires philosophy, a deep underpinning. And the philosophy behind the Trump corollary is older than Monroe. It's older than America. It goes back to 1648. The Treaty of Westfailia ended 30 years of religious war in Europe. It established the principle of the modern world, the sovereign nation state. Every nation controls its own territory, its own laws, its own destiny. No outside power, no empire, no super national institution, no financial cartel has the right to override that sovereignty. For
350 years, that principle was the bedrock of European civilization. But the liberal post-war order decided to dismantle it. open borders, supernational institutions, NOS with foreign funding and foreign agendas. Joseph Hummire, someone you've probably never heard of. He's the assistant secretary of war for homeland defense, said it precisely at the counter cartel conference in March of 2026. Since 1648, since the peace of Westfailia, sovereignty has been the bedrock of human flourishing. You do not have a
democracy if you do not have your sovereignty. And you cannot have your sovereignty without borders. You do not have a democracy if you do not have your sovereignty. Every foundation that funded the legalization of drugs campaign was betting against West Failia. Every bank that processed cartel money was betting against West Failia. Every NGO that ran migration caravans as cartel logistics was betting against West Failia. They were not making policy errors. They were making a wager that a world without sovereign
borders was a world they could manage. It was a direct attack on our civilization to create a world of appetites, not citizens. A world of subjects, not republics. The Trump 2025 national security strategy answered that wager. It says the world's fundamental political unit is and will remain the nation state. That principle sovereignty restored, borders enforced, the nation state as the irreducible unit of civilization. This is the foundation of President Trump's shield of the Americas. This is
a unified hemispheric security and economic perimeter that was announced on March 7th. A coalition of nations and militaries to exterminate the cartels and reclaim national territorial control throughout the hemisphere. This is not imperialism. This is the restoration of the Westfallian system and the true Monroe doctrine. And it is not only militarily. As Pete Hegsef made clear at the counter cartel conference, unfettered access to key terrain and trade so that our nations can industrialize. The shield is the economic wall that
China cannot climb. We are bringing our factories, our supply chains, our energy production back to the Western Hemisphere. A fortress economy of 670 million people. 670 million people who share a common history, a common faith, and a common destiny. Secure the hemisphere, then we build. Steven Miller said it precisely at the counter cartel conference in March 2026. The key condition of human flourishing, of prosperity, is order and security. A country cannot pursue economic growth, cultural enrichment, art, architecture,
education, science if it doesn't have fundamental security first. Because as he said, the West only achieved the place that it did in human history because it spent previous centuries eradicating the criminal elements within its territories. And then when people could live freely and peaceibly then it became possible to pursue all of these higher elements of life. So what does building look like? The answer is not new. We have done this before. And the last time we did it right, the entire hemisphere flourished.
The year is 1933. FDR ends his cousin Teddy's Roosevelt corollary. And he issues the good neighbor policy. No more gunboat diplomacy. No more debt collection at bayonet point. America would be a partner, not an extractor. A team of engineers, American industrialists led by Morris Cook, traveled to Brazil with a mandate. Replicate the American miracle of industry and development. They brought the methods of the Tennessee Valley Authority, the project that had transformed the poorest region in the United States into an industrial
powerhouse. And they asked, "What would this look like apply to the entire hemisphere?" The answer was Volulta Redunda, a full brand new industrial city built from nothing in the mountains of Rio de Janeiro province anchored by a brand new modern integrated steel plant. The United States Reconstruction Finance Corporation provided 65% of financing. American engineers, American technology, Brazilian sovereignty, Brazilian labor, Brazilian ownership. And it worked. Had it not been for the war, the
industrialization of Brazil and the nations of Ebero America was nearly guaranteed. Fullscale industrialization. The United States would be the leader of a hemisphere committed to unlimited growth and prosperity. Now, after decades of war and destruction, we are rebuilding our nation. We are returning to the American system, and this time for good. We are setting the foundation to build a market for investment and industry, for real, sustained growth throughout the Americas. A market of 670 million people, larger than Europe,
equivalent to Southeast Asia, right here in our own hemisphere. A culture of sovereign nations, not gangs and drug pushers. The world has never seen anything like this before. This is what it means to build a new American civilization. The Western Hemisphere will quickly become the dominant economic engine of the 21st century. Today, the United States International Development Finance Corporation is committing to long-term high techchnology investments across the hemisphere. modular nuclear power in
Argentina, nuclear energy in El Salvador with a target of 26% of national power from nuclear by 2050. 10 years ago, El Salvador was the murder capital of the Americas. Now, it is the safest nation in the hemisphere. This is what President Boule and his people have accomplished, and now they have a vision for growth. El Salvador can now look to the United States for advanced technology like nuclear power. This is what the Trump corollarly looks like. This is the Donroe doctrine. As Marco Rubio said at the Shield of the
America's conference, we want the world to see that when you're a friend and an ally of the United States, it is a good thing. It's reciprocated. This is the revival of the Monroe Doctrine. This is the spirit of 76. Supply chains are coming home. Factories are coming home. Energy production is coming home. And we are securing a hemisphere of 670 million people who share a common history, a common faith, and a common destiny. But here's the hard truth that no one in the globalist
establishment wants you to say out loud. You cannot build a nuclear plant in territory controlled by the Sinaloa cartel. You cannot build a steel mill in a corridor owned by the Chinese triads. You cannot attract investment to a nation where the cartel collects the taxes, runs the courts, and decides who lives and who doesn't. Safety is the prerequisite for sovereignty. Stability is the prerequisite for investment. Sovereignty is the prerequisite for civilization. This is why the military campaign and
the development doctrine are not two different policies. They are one policy. The shield of the Americas is not just a security perimeter. It is the foundation on which a new civilization gets built. The Trump corollary is very simple. We are kicking the globalists out whether they come as IMF debt farmers from Brussels or as the fentanel supply chain from Guang Dong. and we let the sovereign nations of the Americas build again. This isn't just good for us. The Americas are the foundation for a global
system of sovereign nations. By breathing life back into these republics, by proving that the Westfailian system works, that sovereign nations under God can build and flourish and defend themselves. We are not just securing a hemisphere. We are reviving the very idea of a civilization of nations for the 21st century. And here's the question I want to leave you with. Not a policy question, not a political one, a civilizational one. Could the American Revolution have happened? Could it have succeeded in a culture of
pleasure seeeking, in a culture of escapism, of cynicism, of men and women who had decided that comfort was the highest good, that the next high was worth more than the next generation. Think about who actually built this country. Alexander Hamilton was born on the island of Nevice, a small forgotten speck in the Caribbean. Illegitimate, orphaned by 13, no family name to trade on, no inheritance, no connections. By rights, history should never have heard of him. But Hamilton looked at the cause
of American independence and saw something larger than himself, larger than his suffering, larger than his circumstances, and he gave everything to it. He was 20 years old when he was commanding artillery at the Battle of Trenton. He was writing the Federalist Papers at 32. He built the financial architecture of a nation from scratch. And he was killed by British agent Aaron Burr. Henry Knox was a book seller. A book seller. 25 years old, running a bookshop in Boston when the war broke out. But he had read every military
treatise he could get his hands on. Not because anyone told him to, but because he hungered for something greater. Washington, General Washington, sent him to retrieve the cannons from Fort Ticeroga in the dead of winter. Knox dragged 60 tons of artillery across frozen lakes and mountain passes 300 miles and deliver them to Dorchester Heights, forcing the British to evacuate Boston without a single shot fired. A book seller did that. James Monroe was an orphan at 16, responsible for his younger siblings. He
crossed the Delaware with Washington on Christmas night 1776. A musk ball severed his artery. He nearly bled to death in the snow. 50 years later, as an old man with a failing heart, he was still talking about what he called our shared cause of liberty. These were not men who had been numbed. They were not men who had retreated into pleasure, into distraction, into the fog of substances that dull the mind and quiet the conscience. They were wide awake, fully, dangerously awake to the stakes of their
moment, to the weight of history, to the possibility that they could be the generation that changed everything. And they were. That is what drugs steal. Not just years, not just health, not families, though they steal all of those things. What drugs steal is this. The hunger, the clarity, the willingness to suffer for something that matters. The capacity to look at a broken world and say, "I will be the one who fixes it." The cartels know this. The dealers know this. The hedge funds that bankroll
legalization, they certainly know this. This is the globalist plan. A population that is high is a population that is easily managed. And you cannot build a civilization with people who have been chemically convinced that nothing is worth fighting for. But here is what they cannot take from us. No cartel, no fentanyl shipment, no Soros funded ballot initiative can ever fully extinguish this. the truth about America, about our country, about our civilization, how we came into existence. Hamilton is still here.
Washington is still here. Lincoln and McKinley are still here. The question is, do we today, this generation, your generation, have the same fire? Can we look at the wreckage the drug trade has made of our cities, our families, our young men and women, and feel not despair, but fury? The righteous, clarifying fury of a people who know what's at stake and refuse to accept the destruction of our civilization. That's what this war is about. Not just stopping the cartels, not just sealing the border, not just dismantling the
financial networks that launder the blood money. It is about reclaiming the American soul. It is about deciding as a civilization that we are not going to go quietly, that we are not going to be managed, that we are not going to trade our children's future for someone else's profit margin. The revolution was won by young people who chose a higher cause over a comfortable life. The cartels believe they are unstoppable. They have bought the politicians. They have the weapons, the money, and protection. They
have operated for 40 years with near total impunity. But they are not a power. They are a parasite, a tapeworm. Pete Hexath said it at the counter cartel conference. Whether our nations will be and remain Western nations with distinct characteristics, Christian nations under God, proud of our shared heritage. That is the question on the table. Not just for this administration, but for this generation. whether the Americas from Greenland to Tiara del Fuego will be sovereign nations of free peoples under God. Or will we be managed
territories of addicted subjects administered by a financial cartel that has no flag, no faith, and no future to offer anyone. We are a civilization of builders, of believers, of sovereign citizens under God. We are the heirs of every man and woman who ever looked at this hemisphere and saw the potential to build a new kind of civilization. This is not a documentary. This is a declaration of independence. The light of a new American civilization is breaking over the horizon. And there will be no mercy for the drug pushers,
no quarter for the traitors, no surrender of our future. Our policy is total victory. unconditional surrender, nothing less. Thanks for watching. Hit the like and subscribe and share this video with someone who you know needs to be in the fight. See you next week.
