PROMETHEAN ACTION – BOARDROOM TRANSCRIPT
Title: SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP OVER: Trump Dumps UK for New Alliance
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FAqj9aM8KXo
Extract Date: 2026-04-01 08:46:47
Video ID: FAqj9aM8KXo

====================================================================

, and this is just one question from the poll here. The wider poll suggested 
the the wider poll suggested that most americans don't approve right now, don't 
approve of the military action, but there was this one very interesting 
question in the poll that i think is a very good way to start the show. So, 
this was done by cbs yuggov. Approve disapprove of military action against iran 
if think conflict would last days or weeks months or years and very 
interestingly enough if people say this war is going to last day days or weeks 
76% at least according to this poll this was let me let me zoom in here so this 
was done on march between march 2nd and 3rd 2026 with it looks a margin of 
error of about 3.2 points. So this is within margin of error for sure, right? 
So 76 approved, 24% disapproved. But you see that radically change once you 
come into the months situation. So i think this is a very good way to start. 
Barbara and susan, >> your thoughts? Yeah, i mean it's obvious that people 
still are in the framework which is being fed by the media, fed by the internet 
that this is going to be a regime change war. And it's going to be iraq and 
it's going to be what some people have experienced, not a lot of young people. 
From from the period of the collapse of the soviet union forward in the form of 
endless wars which go nowhere eat up our resources and kill a lot of people. 
That's not what's happening here. If you step back and think about what the 
president has done on energy on making us self-sufficient in terms of 
fundamental metals that type of thing in in the world in terms of of rebuilding 
our industrial base and more fundamentally in terms of the middle east actually 
setting up the board of peace. This is not a war being run by israel. It's a 
war being run by donald trump to essentially get rid of a system, a failed 
system in the world which controlled all natural resources, all essential 
metals and oil and everything else through the banking empire of the city of 
london. And that is what is actually at stake here. This is as susan has 
emphasized in her in her video is the first war which britain hasn't supported 
probably in the postwar period because they controlled all the wars and they 
ran the actual imposition of the theocracy in iran which we can get into a 
little bit as questions arise here. So this is a complete change of axioms for 
the world. Complete complete shift. All right. And what trump is doing is we're 
going to be self-sufficient in the united states. We have lots of oil. Lloyds 
of london we wiped out and said okay you can basically try and create a fuel 
crisis in the world which you're doing by wiping out all insurance for for 
ships coming through the straits of hormuz but we're going to replace that with 
the us navy and with with actual insurance which this government will create 
for the entire world and for us also in terms of that vital shipping lane. If 
you look at true social this morning, there's an exchange between donald trump 
and the pre current president of venezuela, deli rodriguez, and she's she is 
saying that donald trump is doing something different than what anybody thinks 
of when they think of an imperialist power. He's gone into a country which was 
on its knees and he's basically extricated the dictator out of there and he's 
figured out a way to actually have a maximum advantage relationship between the 
people of venezuela and the united states around reviving production of oil 
which is their vital resource which we're paying for. We're not ripping them 
off. Okay, as was the traditional british model. Were paying for so that they 
can develop independently. She understands that now. She didn't understand it 
necessarily in the first instance. But if it had been a regime change war, we 
would have gone in there and fired her, got rid of everybody, imposed this this 
idiot gaido, , john bolton's guy from the outside, , and essentially said, 
"you're the you're the puppet now for the empire." and the people of venezuela 
would have been left in the lurch. That's a regime change war. That's what we 
actually did along with the british for a very very long time, , up until trump 
quite literally. So, this is very different. And the problem people are having 
is they're looking at this through the eyes of the last war, the the axioms of 
the last war. This is different. This goes back to the old argument between 
winston churchill and franklin roosevelt. And roosevelt said, "winston, you've 
already dragged us into two wars. There's not going to be a third. And what's 
going to happen after world war ii is we're not going into countries to 
basically rip them off. We're going into countries to help them develop. And 
that in turn helps our economy because of trade, because of great trade. 
Churchill was apoplelectic, completely flipped out. Donald trump, ironically, 
is now doing what roosevelt wasn't able to complete because he died. So that's 
what we need to think about in this show. I think that's the overall strategic 
context. We can't predict what's going to happen now. It is after all a war. 
And that's what happens in a war. And a lot of what's going on, we don't know. 
It's it's, , classified information. But we do know donald trump's intent. And 
that's what i think people should really be focusing on. His messaging, , , is 
is, , really essential at this point to follow and follow his thinking. He's 
solving problems as they arise. He's doing it, as he says, for the future, for 
the future of the middle east. And for the future really of the united states. 
I i will be doing my video on saturday is going to be very much focused on the 
original 1979 revolution in iran. That's going to be a little bit of a history 
lesson for people. But you're going to see that it was a british coup d'eta. 
And it was a coup d'eta which didn't have to do with the middle east. It had to 
do with germany and france actually challenging the british empire and the 
entire system of control. That's not the way people think about these things, 
but that happens to be what happens in the dynamic way that history actually 
functions. So, that's where we'll leave our opening. Yeah. And adam, i would 
throw that poll back up on the screen. Because i find those numbers completely 
fascinating. Because if you look at the difference between days and weeks where 
76% approve and years where 13% approve, you actually see that the message is 
getting through. That is people. The the 76% to me demonstrates that people 
support something that has an actual goal in mind which is to the benefit of 
the united states and the world. And the 13% is the john boltons, right, who 
want these things to go on for years and years and years for a completely 
different purpose. , and i think that's a very interesting number right there. 
But i would just elaborate further in terms of what barbara said that that 
people have to locate this in that in in that historical strategic intervention 
which the president is making right now. Not in the social media echo chamber 
of the kneebone is connected to the thigh bone and all of the false narratives 
that have been created for the last 30 or 40 years. , if pe if any people are 
having trouble understanding this, , understanding why people barbara and i who 
have been on the front lines for a long time are actually supporting a war 
which we've never done before. It's because we you are in a completely 
different domain where the president of the united states and his team are 
acting on the world as it actually is rather than just playing their role on 
the british chess board which is what every president has done frankly since 
the death of john f. Kennedy with precious precious few ex ex ex exceptions. , 
so i i want to take this briefly in another direction because i with barbara 
and i and adam really want people thinking from a different standpoint over the 
course of this war, not just reacting to what's being thrown at you. , so adam, 
i'd you to play the first clip of the round table that president trump held 
yesterday on the question of energy and ai. And the bottom line, it takes 
electricity nobody's ever seen before. And i said, well, with an old grid, even 
if we fix it really well, which we're in the process of doing, you can't take 
that and double our electricity. They're going to have to build it themselves. 
And i told mark, i actually told mark, i told elon, i told people, and nobody 
believed me. They said, "you're going to let us build our own electric." 
because they've been so used to being beaten down and to have people with no 
ideas, no ideas how to solve problems, and then the whole thing fails. It's a 
whole disaster. They said, "no, i'm serious." and in one case they submitted 
plans and they didn't do what i told them and when i called them i said why 
don't you have your plant here we thought you were kidding are you serious you 
really they couldn't believe it in a in a good way they said it's too good to 
be true and i said no it's not >> transformative technology >> you can stop 
there >> lead in ai and the old energy policies that were going >> okay this is 
the president addressing round table yesterday where he announced he'd 
previously announced it, but this is essentially unveiling to the world his 
executive orders and other agreements with the major ai companies that they 
have to produce their own energy. He makes very clear that communities are 
justifiably concerned that if a big ai facility comes in, their energy rates 
are going to go up. And as the pres but and as as he made and so he's now 
created this circumstance where the ai companies have to produce their own 
energy and if there's excess energy it's going to go back out into the grid and 
potentially bring energy prices down. In fact, at one point in this discussion, 
i believe it's chris wright, the energy secretary, makes the point that indiana 
has done this and energy rates are starting to go down in indiana, which may be 
the only place in the country right now where that's actually happening. But i 
picked that particular excerpt because of the thing that the president said in 
the in the middle of it where he said they were so beaten down. There were 
problems and nobody wanted no nobody had any ideas of how to solve them. And 
this is the characteristic well i would rephrase that. I think that the global 
elite didn't want to solve the problems. They had created a structure in which 
we would de-industrialize. We would be at the mercy of oil flows from the 
straits of hormuts or whatever. And what the president is doing across the 
board whether it's his action to say that the united states is going to ensure 
freigherss going through the straight and we will accomp naval vessels will 
accompany them if need be to this announcement yesterday this round table 
yesterday where he says we're dealing in the real world we need ai it's going 
to double or triple energy needs in the united ates and as you heard him say 
there's no way the existing grid can do that. So he went outside the box and he 
said all right you guys produce your own energy and your extra energy is going 
to go out into the grid. He solves problems in the real world not the narrative 
that too many people have been living in because nobody had the courage to step 
outside of it. And sometimes when you've, , what's that old phrase, you've been 
down so long it looks up to me. , people have been in this box for so long, 
they keep finding it hard to believe that somebody is not living in that box. I 
just want to play this other short excerpt from the energy secretary because 
again, it gets gets everybody out of the box. The transformative technology. 
America must lead in ai. And the old energy policies that were going on would 
not lead in ai. We need to lead in ai. Number two, the government's a 
bureaucracy. It's always in the way of things. It's been in the way of ai. 
We've got to run the government a business. The businesses who want to invest 
are our partners and get them here right away. And we've got to work with those 
partners. And boy, we have seven incredible leaders in the room today. We're 
going to win in ai and we're going to stop the rise in electricity prices 
because of the seven leaders that are sitting around this table. The president 
said you're going to work with them business leaders. Ultimately, this is not a 
negotiation where one side wins and one side loses. We have the same interests. 
The interest of the businesses is to be embraced by the communities so they can 
build and develop data centers in their communities. Those data centers that 
are developed there are going to bring jobs and opportunities for people. We're 
here. >> okay, that's that's enough, adam. , , the the most important thing he 
said there is it's not one side wins and one side loses. That is the 
characteristic of the british system. Under the british system, they're 
controlling everything at the top. They're sucking everything out of the 
economy. And they win, we lose or you lose a little less than your neighbor who 
also loses. What what wright said right there and the characteristic of this 
administration is this false binary choice of government versus private 
industry is gone. We're partnering for what is good for the american people. 
Again, these this is a completely different way of thinking. So as we go 
through the discussion today and take people's questions, constantly be doing a 
mental check. Am i thinking inside the old box controlled by the british empire 
or i am up here in the future with donald trump? >> thank you barbara and 
susan. And thank you everyone for tuning in on youtube. Please drop us a on 
your on your way and it helps increase our distribution on youtube. And thank 
you everyone for joining us on x.com. Okay, so i went and did an update. I know 
people were screaming when i started with the the polls. Just so that you 
realize for more context, i don't usually follow polls, but i thought that one 
that particular question i thought was very representative of what i was seeing 
on the wider discussion on the internet. So that's why i honed in on it as the 
lead. But i also went and did some updates. I did some searches to see what was 
up with the issue of the strait of hormuz. Looking at the new cuz the the 
lloyds of london and the british insurance companies have stopped doing war 
insurance. Trump suggested two days ago. There hasn't been any updates on that 
as far as we know. There's nothing really public yet. So, and also nothing on 
the navy. I went and looked on that. There haven't been really up any updates 
on how the us navy is going to handle the straight of hormuz, but that is 
totally a question we have up and coming up. Actually, let's let's start with 
that. So, thank you everyone for the super chats. We're going to start with one 
here with thomas jayen. I think this thomas jansen, thank you very much for 
joining us every week here. Did trump just seize the maritime insurance 
business? Barbara and susan i you could say that at least temporarily. What 
what that could have been a real killer blow and that has been the way that the 
city of london has operated. They don't really do extraction of raw materials 
from the ground etc. They depend on the people who actually they control to do 
that stuff. What they operate on is all sorts of contracts, futures, commodity 
purchases, manipulation of the markets, , in these areas, dirty money, which is 
that, , they're very they're they're straight up about it. We love to launder 
money. , and and , they they actually talk about it. , and on top of that, , 
what they have controlled is how do you price oil? They control the spot 
markets for the most part. How do you actually get things shipped around the 
world? They control the insurance business and they control a whole hell of a 
lot of the actual flagging of ships. How do you settle the contracts for 
commodities? That's also what they do explicitly. So it's all this imaginary 
stuff which has very little to do with real things. , , anticipation of risk. 
I'm not saying that's not real, but it's not the same thing as, , i go in, i'm 
a country, i go in, i mine my product, i sell it. , and how do i transport it? 
Well, that's where the choke choke points come up in terms of the city of 
london. All right, that's how they have operated , ever since, well, really 
explicitly since margaret thatcher's big bang. But also since since the end of 
world war ii so you you've got essentially a situation in which now we've got a 
war going on and there's a vital shipping route. Everybody knows from the time 
the war planners sat down and actually said what are our contingency plans for 
doing this that protecting that straight was an essential aspect of protecting 
world trade. That's why trump came up with the idea of saying, "okay, the city 
of london may or may not initially. That's probably what he's thinking of." 
lloyds might take a risk on us. Not not really. They were never going to do 
that. And starmmer coming out and saying we're not supporting this gives away 
the overall plan. Mark carney, he's been on both sides. I mean, talking out of 
both sides of his mouth at this point. The order has clearly gone out in the 
empire. We're not supporting this. Why? Because it completely changes their 
system. That's why i mean they can talk about, oh, it's not, , it's not an 
authorized war. It's too risky. You don't do regime change from the air. , all 
this nonsense which they're putting out there. , but the reality is trump is 
completely and has completely disrupted the system and he said it over and over 
and over again. That's what he is doing. He said it in his national security 
policy. He said it in munich. He's been saying it over and over again. Your 
system didn't work. It strangled the american worker. That's my metric. Now i'm 
basically initiating a new system inclusive of ensuring that the american 
people are safe for the future. And that's what his intention is about. I'm 
not, , israel has a correlary intention, but it isn't the same thing. >> thank 
you. Yeah, i was going to i was going to ask i was going to read a few 
questions here. So, these questions are coming from our email newsletter 
subscribers. Thank you everyone on our email newsletter list. Thank you for 
being a part of that process. We have just reached over a 100,000 email 
newsletter subscribers. That means people that are actually getting our email 
and that's worldwide. Thank you everyone for joining our email newsletter. If 
you want to do that, we have a free emails newsletter. The link is in the 
description. So that's where these questions are coming up from from this slide 
deck. So joseph here, you answered it, but let's maybe just recap it again. 
Outstanding coverage of analysis of operation epic fury. None better. Do you 
see lloyds going back to ensuring ships in the future or do you think they just 
just got officially replaced for good? I don't know about that. Okay. That was 
an epic blunder on their part, by the way. I'm betting they regret that move 
now. I actually think trump anticipated all that. They're not equipped to deal 
with him. >> no, i think joseph hit the nail on the head. Whether this is 
permanent or lloyds is out of business ensuring ships in the future i i think 
that remains to be seen but i think what the president did with that decision 
on the strait both in terms of the insurance and in terms of the us navy is he 
just put the empire on notice we're no longer playing by your games. That 
that's the significance of what he did. By saying the united states is back as 
a sovereign nation. We will pursue our interests and as barbara mentioned in 
terms of the current situation with iran those interests overlap israel's 
perceived interests but that doesn't mean donald trump is doing this on behalf 
of bb netanyahu. He's doing this on behalf of an american sovereign republic 
which is now acting in its own interests and using its power economic and 
military for our interests which actually happen to coincide with a lot of the 
world at this point. , so yeah, joseph, i think you're right on on target and 
they aren't equipped to deal with him as long as enough of us actually 
understand how he thinks and, , are magnifying what he's doing and supporting 
what he's doing rather than falling into all the social media chatter about 
this that or the other thing. >> thank you, barbara and susan. And i'd to i 
have to give a quick shout out here to mark shaunie. Thank you again for the 
very generous super chat. I think you did. I'm almost certain you did this to 
us last week. Thank you. Thank you very much. I know i'm getting covered at the 
moment. Thank you very much, mark. Okay. You're making a big difference and 
many more people are seeing your updates as more are sharing them. The obstacle 
is decades of earned mistrust of our government motives. Keep driving home the 
positive message to trust trump and keep the faith. It's going to be our second 
independence day. God bless you. God bless you too, mark. >> thank you so much. 
And thank you and thank you to all and thank you mark. And and thank you to all 
the other super chats that i haven't shown yet. I i have them all up here. I 
promise you i'm going to give you a shout out. I was trying to get a much 
stronger opening and a much faster velocity to value for this show. So, and i 
see that with almost 6,000 concurrent viewers. Thank you everyone for tuning in 
today. Okay, but i'm going to get to the next the two related questions that 
stay on topic and we're also israel control. We're i have we have three 
questions exactly on that because i know it comes up in the chat. So, we're 
going to be talking about israel in just a few moments. Okay, let me let me get 
to these next two questions that are on this topic, though. So, thank you, tim. 
Do you think the us navy has the capacity and ability to escort and protect all 
the ships moving through the straight of hormuz? Also, i believe the shipping 
companies will be reluctant to switch insurance providers. Do you have any 
information regarding this? Thank you, tim. And thank you, chip. You said the 
brits won't go quietly as trump has castrated its hold on the streets of 
hormuz. What possible scenarios could chadam house attempt to regain its 
historic manipulation on oil transport? And do you see a prolonged us military 
presence in the straits? Thank you, chip, and thank you, tim, for the comments. 
Barbara and susan, any further comment on these two? That's one of the things i 
don't know. , , this is war and , basically we're just going to have to see how 
things play out. I don't think you can really predict it. I think you could 
probably take a list and look at the present tanker capacity of the world and 
see the flags on the ships that transport oil. Principally this stuff has been 
going for the most part to china and to asia which is what goes through the 
straits. We are swimming in oil and natural gas at this point in terms of 
trump's drill baby drill policy for the united states. So the impact on us, , 
despite the spot market manipulation of pricing, i think is going to be 
ultimately end up being minimal. But, , we can't predict exactly what's going 
to happen with the rest of the world because, , that's dependent on on how they 
actually pick sides and what is the actual civil war going on right now, which 
is the war between the american system in the united states and its allies and 
the british system. So, that's, , really how i enter that. >> yeah. And i just 
add, i mean, i think the most important thing that people have to keep in mind, 
, and not get, , too focused on specifically how things are going to play out 
because you can't tell. It is a war. , but what what has changed, and this is 
where i think you're going to see decisions being made in a different way, is 
they're seeing a different intention. They're seeing the united states function 
in a completely different way than we have functioned. And again, we have to 
keep coming back to this is the first war in the post-war period that the 
british are not all in on. If that right there doesn't tell you something about 
the fact that this is this is different and and as as companies and countries 
and political forces around the world understand that this is different, 
they're going to start making decisions from that standpoint. >> thank you, 
susan and barbara. Let me just go through a quick round of shout outs here. 
Thank you leslie in crazy seattle. Yes, seattle's very crazy. That's 
unfortunate because the entire pacific coast is absolutely beautiful, including 
the pacific northwest. So, it pains me to know that it's so crazy out there. 
Thank you for your support. , david gray, thank you for joining us again. Chad 
wall, thank you for joining us, brother. I wish i didn't work night so i could 
watch the whole show, but dying here sending a 20 spot for all your work. Thank 
you for joining us before you head off to bed. , dark, thank you. Dark sky at 
night for joining us again. Grandpido vic, i believe we need digital i i 
believe we need ai, but digital id is the mark of the beast. They can't secure 
a spark plugbook. I think it's more than just digital id. The problem with ai 
and all technology really is that it gets used as a tool of social control. 
They literally turn a a productive tool of mankind into something that's 
literally designed to control mass amounts of human beings. So, i think that's 
also part of it's not just digital idea. It's using idea for mass surveillance, 
that stuff. That's that's really the terrible part. Thank you for joining us 
again. Jamie lavender, thank you. I don't know. I thank you for the super chat. 
If you're not a subscriber, please give us a subscribe and a . We also have a 
free email newsletter. Thank you for joining us. Healing healing singer, thank 
you for the super chat. We really we really appreciate you being here. Grateful 
for your out ofthebox reporting. Thank you, patricia smith. Again, please make 
sure you're subscribe to the channel if you're the f if this is your first time 
here. So, thank you everyone. I have i have more super chats. I'm going to i'm 
going to hold these here for now and we're going to continue with the 
questions. So, i think the next ones we're going to take is maybe next ones 
we're going to take are maybe on a more international a more international 
angle here. How does the attack on iran affect china's economy? If so, what 
would china do to survive? And then i'm gonna take this together with num 
number six. Thank you, david. Sorry, adam. A long question but i will donate. 
Thank you. Number one, why stopping oil from venezuela and now and now iran 
affects china's place in the global market. Two, why has stopping everyone 
except iranian people to build their own government set a massive shock wave 
through the empire. Trump, a man of his word, giving the power back to the 
people. Three, the great awakening. How amazing is it that the president and 
secretary of war now have people openly questioning why their own governments 
are not supporting the us fully even after their own bases were hit? Thank you 
david for the series of questions. So i guess the key thing here though is how 
does this play out with china and especially with the venezuelan oil situation 
which barbara mentioned in the introduction? Well, i'll just take one crack at 
it and then barbara can pick it up. , , look, again, it's a question of what is 
what is your underlying set of axioms and hypotheses? , , president trump has 
made clear in terms of venezuela that china can keep buying from them. , , and 
and but but again to go back to the underlying hypothesis, look at the national 
security strategy. If you look at the the national new national defense 
strategy, neither russia nor china are identified as perpetual enemies. So what 
the president is doing in the straits, , some people are saying, "oh, this is 
going to you or with iran, , he's going to use this against china just he was 
going to use venezuela against china." no, i mean if the chinese are doing 
something which is enimical to us, , in terms of operations on the ground in a 
place venezuela, , that's over. But in terms of china's interest as a sovereign 
nation, which needs energy, the president is not out there to disrupt that. And 
i think his intention to keep the straight open, is beneficial for absolutely 
everybody. But in terms of your your final two questions yeah the the the 
president is just shattering the narrative that's existed and i i think that 
third point the great awakening how amazing is it that pus and the sec sect war 
now have people opening openly questioning why their own governments are not 
supporting this put that in the same category as what he did in the state of 
the union message right you can stand there and attack the british or the 
democrats or whatever, or you can get them right out there in their own name, 
showing people just how evil, just how wrong, just how insane their policies 
are, , and again, as long as people keep their heads out of the box and in the 
real world, this is going to continue to have massive, massive shock waves. I 
don't know if barbara wants to add anything. >> no, i don't have anything to 
add to that. He's going to see china at the end of the month and i i don't 
think as opposed to almost everything you hear from certain portion of the maga 
base he still wants to be co cooperative with china there's a whole strategy 
here involving what has been called the core five i.e e china, russia, india, 
the united states and japan. Those are the countries that are the most advanced 
technologically at this point. They also have the world's largest population 
and therefore the largest potential for huge development of the world in a 
human way where we realize our identity as human beings as creative creations 
of of god in a developing universe and basically our our mission here is to 
increasingly perfect that universe. So, , that's very different than these 
other countries in terms of how they think about things culturally or anything 
else. It is a wonderful challenge to figure out how we're going to all 
collaborate in developing the world. , but that is the type of power apparatus 
which can actually defeat the extended british empire once and for all. And 
this year would be a great year to do it on our 250th anniversary. So i think 
that's really what's behind a lot of the things which are happening and people 
don't understand it. >> thank you barbara and thank you susan and i'd also to 
give a quick shout out to pgec. I think we just answered. Do you think the iran 
war conflict with the us involved will end pretty soon because countries close 
by will help iran instead of the us? Well, i think we've already seen the gulf 
cooperation council, , which includes oman, which was actually the main country 
mediating between the united states and iran, were all attacked by iran. So, 
they've all come out with a statement of condemnation of iran, which you've 
never seen anything that before. And obviously, they de facto are aligned with 
us militarily, at least from the standpoint of defending themselves from 
further iranian attacks. So, as i mentioned in my show yesterday, even an 
outlet as global globalist and angloile as the atlantic council came out with a 
a headline yesterday saying the the gulf that comes out of this war is going to 
be completely different than the one that went in. >> thank you. Okay, let's 
jump to the first question here. This is just to address a lot of what's 
bouncing around on the internet right now, but i think it's still we should 
still take it. Do you think trump will be helping to choose a leader for iran 
or do you think he has somebody in mind already? I heard that one of the 
leaders sons is thinking of taking over. Wouldn't that lead to more problems? 
Thank you karen for this question. I think this is on everyone's mind. Arban 
susan >> obviously the iranians are pursuing a a theocracy just kmeni's 
theocracy as their idea of what a successor will be. Our idea is very 
different. We want to basically support those iranians who came out to protest 
the regime and were mowed down in the thousands. , iran is a proud persian 
nation with a great deal of actual science and technological development. And 
if you the way i think or i i i i can't put myself in the president's shoes. I 
can only say i i think i have some understanding of how he thinks about these 
problems. And if you think about all the things which have been thrown against 
iran since 1979 by the anglo-americans and the fact that this regime not 
because of the leadership but because of the people below the leadership in key 
positions in the government actually survived all of that. That demonstrates a 
certain level of absolute competence and i think it's from that layer that 
we're looking at or looking for new leaders to emerge. Taking the shaw's son 
which is the proposal of the various neocons in the united states is something 
that the that the president seems to be rejecting outright. He's looking for 
the emergence of natural leadership from that layer of the population that i 
just mentioned that which has already shown a level of technological and and 
scientific competence to actually govern. So it's all not resolved and it's not 
going to be because we have to see what emerges. >> yeah. I'll just get more 
specific. The president was asked explicitly about raza palabi, the sha's son, 
and he said, "well, i he's a nice man, but i think we will we will be better 
off if you get somebody from inside the country." , which is exactly parallel 
to the situation in venezuela, as we referenced earlier. We we saw the 
president's truth. The neocons, the regime changers, they wanted to get rid of 
maduro and put in one of their people. And trump did not play that game. So i 
think to the extent he he wants the iranian people to settle this and and to 
come up with somebody who actually can govern iran as a representative of the 
iranian people. Not somebody who, as trump said, is a nice man, but has lived 
outside the country for how many decades? Thank you very much. I'd to give just 
a quick shout out to all the support we're getting in the super chat and from 
across the world. Thank you all of our international viewers. Thank you 
stephanie. Thank you for tuning in from france. We really appreciate you have 
we really appreciate having you here. Thank you for being a part of our 
community. By the world, thank you. A friend from up north. Thank you so much. 
Melinda, thank you for joining us. Beverly adams, we can't do the show without 
our repeat viewers, without our serial viewers. Thank you so much, beverly, for 
joining us. Tom, thank you team. This is where i get all my news from. I know 
that's something that i've been thinking about more with the newsletter. , 
maybe i should be putting more breaking news updates in them for people. I'm 
not certain, but i know a lot of people are using us primarily to get the 
strategic updates in the world. Thank you. Thank you very much. Sincerely, 
stephanie, thank you for your super chat. We really appreciate it. We're 
supported by readers and viewers yourself. Please make sure you're subscribed 
to our to our channel here. Doc knock, excellent coverage and commentary and 
thank you for watching. If people don't watch us, we don't grow this big. So, 
thank you, doc, for joining us. No, no donation is insignificant. Very serious 
about that. We survive not from big corporate donations. We literally survive 
from small $10 donations for the most part. Thank you everyone. Thank you so 
much. I'm going to mispronounce this. Thank you. Thank you everyone. And a 
friend from denmark before i get back to questions. Lb vanting, always great to 
see sane europeans. I know how liberal europe is. Thank you for your great 
work. Really appreciate it. Greetings from denmark. I'm not even going to try 
and slaughter the pronunciation there. Thank you so much for joining us. And 
finally, karen. Karen, please make sure you're subscribed to the channel. We do 
three political updates a week, plus this live show. We also have a free 
newsletter link is in the description. Okay, so that clears our super chats 
from now. What should we get at next? Susan, is there any angle that you wanted 
you you wanted to reach next? Well, i think we probably should dispense with 
the trump is doing this on behalf of bb netanyahu. >> really? Or do you want to 
do the other side? Are the are the everyone's hating on muslim problem? >> , 
it's they're two sides of the same coin. >> yeah. Okay. All right. So, we're 
going to do it. We're going to take the question that we do get all the time. 
First off, everyone, we do get questions this all the time, but i know 
intentionally we're branding the channel intentionally not to get super tied up 
into this. Okay. So, but we are here. Let me let me pull it up right here. So, 
that starts on question seven. All right. So, i'm going to read these next 
three questions together. Let me just double check. Yes. Okay. Thank you, eric. 
There's no other way for a reasonable person to interpret it. Rubio badly 
admitted that israel directs us foreign policy in the middle east. Back in dc, 
congressional members have been directed by apec not to interfere. Attacking 
iran has nothing to do with undermining the uk empire system. In the present 
day, does the us system control israel? Does it control the day-to-day 
activities of iran? The honest answer is no. The uk may have set up a system 
long ago, but the players now act according to their own self- agency. Trump's 
foreign policies here have proven to his maga base that israel, not trump, is 
in control. Trump has lost the midterms. Thank i it's it's always funny how 
these things always go together. So trump has lost the midterms. It's already 
over. It's done. It's over. We should just stop the stream. And he has lost 
whatever chance again more prognostications or whomever might have had against 
the dem in the next presidential election. Okay, thank you eric for your 
question is honest. I will give it that much. Please help me understand that 
the usa trump is not israel's dog. If britain gave the zionist the land and we 
are now trying to eliminate iranian occupation arab islamists from iran, 
persia, why does it still look we are tethered to netanyahu's leash? Trump is 
given a golden key to the white house as netanyahu gave the golden pager given 
to trump. A threat? No, that's not a threat. I want to believe your narrative. 
I really do. But i can't help referring back to these events. Thank you rhonda 
for being honest. I super appreciate you sending your honest question and 
letting us read it on air. And the third one here, thank you terry for the same 
thing. I must say i am shocked at your analysis of the us attack on iran. This 
is obviously a zionist operation to destroy iran to further their greater 
israel policy. The us stood by and financed the genocide against the 
palestinians by the zionists and now you say that trump is doing a good thing 
by rebuilding gaza. While i agree that we've got to end the u us uk banking 
relationship, i'm confused about your views on iran particularly since the us 
and britain helped put the ayatollah in power and are now going to destroy the 
country to get rid of them. Please explain. Thank you, terry, for your 
question. Barbara and susan, this is no, we picked the best ones. Okay, so 
first of all, you've got to recognize that and think about in your own mind how 
much of this have you ingested from social media. This has been the british 
operation against trump almost for the entirety of his two administrations. You 
probably never heard of the abraham accords. That is the beginning of his 
reshaping of the entire middle east. Does it involve actually recognizing 
israel on behalf of the gulf states? So we don't have brit britain's perpetual 
war in the middle east, perpetual religious war in the middle east. That's what 
the entire deal was about. Let's recognize israel. Let's also recognize that 
the winds of change are blowing through the arab world and they don't want any 
more of this british orchestrated conflict. Argo, let's build a relationship 
between these countries based on development of the entire region. That's the 
abraham accords. Shortly before october 7th, it looked even under biden, the 
momentum of what trump accomplished in his first term was about to result in 
the recognition by saudi arabia of israel and its right to exist. That changes 
the entire dynamic of the middle east which has existed ever since really ever 
since the sykes paco agreement in which brit britain and france carved up the 
area and assigned country lines to the entire area. All right. That's what 
trump is actually overturning. Does it does it have to do now you've been 
flooded for months with pictures of the destruction of gaza? A long-term 
process which kicked off again on october 7th by who? Hamas. It was shortly 
before the abraham accords were about to be realized even under biden. That 
destroys the entire dynamic which has been set up for centuries in the middle 
east. So that's why october 7th in israel happened. It was designed to set off 
exactly that type of rage and fear in the israeli population by hamas. Who is 
hamas? That is the muslim brotherhood, the israeli branch, if you will, of the 
muslim brotherhood. How had that worked under netanyahu and under ariel chiron? 
Well, essentially hamas was paid by the israelis and the british to actually 
run gaza to undercut the secular authority of the palestinian liberation 
organization to undercut everything that happened under yeetsakin and and an 
attempt to actually settle the long-standing conflict. It's a complex picture, 
but , i think from what i'm telling you that you begin to get a picture of the 
moving parts in this particular drama. A major part of it is the muslim 
brotherhood. That is a invention of british secret intelligence. For what 
reason? We want to have permanent religious warfare in the middle east so that 
we control the oil market. In other words, while everybody is fighting tribal 
warfare, the most primitive warfare, can can a nation develop? Can it actually 
have the expertise to run its own oil industry? Can it have the expertise to 
arrange the shipping and everything else? Not going to happen. That's how the 
british have won run things for centuries. Religious warfare, which is what 
you're now being introduced to in the united states. We have religious warfare 
going on in terms of muslims. We have religious warfare going on in terms of 
jews. We are getting into the old old tribal dynamics which the empire 
flourishes upon. The way you get above that is through overall economic 
development. And that is what donald trump is doing. If you get on a satellite 
and you and you look at the earth from space, you say to yourself, you get a 
whole different view than the boxes which controlled social media is trying to 
put every single one of us in. And trump is constantly thinking, checking 
himself, saying i'm thinking outside the box. There are numerous instances that 
you can cite if you go through the record where he and netanyahu have 
disagreed. There are numerous instances. If you look at fox, you might think 
and might agree with the hypothesis being put forward here because what are 
they doing, which i think is an overall operation? They're putting every neocon 
in the world on to actually tell you mike pompeo, john bolton, , general stupid 
from the pentagon who's been in every single war to analyze things. , you've 
got the whole cast of characters from the previous wars and it is deliberate. 
That's who they're putting on because they want to remind you or make you think 
this is the same thing. So we have to basically constantly check ourselves and 
get outside that narrative because it is not reality. So that's how i'd answer 
the question. Adam, could you go back to the first question in that series, the 
one that talked about rubio? Yeah. , look, here's here's what rubio said and 
here's what steve whit said. I think it's extremely important for people to be 
very clear as opposed to, , the way people have been off to the races at the 
narrative. Witoff was interviewed one or two days into this and he was asked 
about the negotiations. He said, "look, from the very get-go, this last round 
of three negotiations with iran, the iranians came in, they were very clear. 
We're not giving up 60% enrichment." now, there's only one reason to have 60% 
enrichment. Has nothing to do with civilian nuclear power. Whitov said we 
offered to provide them with enriched uranium for free for 10 years so that 
they could have their civilian they said no. He said at a certain point pretty 
much after the second round we decided this ain't going nowhere but we'll give 
it one more shot and they did the third round. Then the president decided 
that's it. This is not a serious negotiation. We're going in. What rubio said 
is we had made that decision, but then we the the the timing of it was 
determined by the fact that we weren't going to let israel do it first. So pay 
attention to what is actually being said here by this administration. They made 
the decision and they made sure that the attack took place on american terms. I 
love it. It's such a meme, right? He's already saying trump, you really have to 
be careful. Trump has already lost the midterms. , if that's what you really 
think, then why are you sending in this question? It's already over. And he has 
lost whatever chance vance, you're so committed, it's already over. How? >> 
which is exactly the purpose of that narrative. That is the purpose of >> it's 
over, right? I i know. I don't know exactly what parts of the internet, eric, 
you you go you hang out in, but i have a very i i have a very good sense, a 
very good flavor of what it probably is. It's over. It's already done, right? 
It's over. And then next week when something else happens, you're going to be , 
"oh, we're back, dude." >> or as a friend of mine, as a friend of mine often 
comments in terms of these kinds of things, , i'm sure glad you weren't 
advising george washington. Thank you, barbara, and thank you, susan. , i'm 
sure this question is going to come up again because this is a this is a 
serious thing. Any you anything else to say on this topic before we move over? 
>> well, let's flip over to the other side. Let's flip to the muslim side. >> 
okay, hold on. Yeah, >> we're in that world. >> yeah, let's let's do it. Hold 
on. It's number 25 and 26. All right. And again, these are only two of a set of 
representative questions we get. Last week, you were emphatic that we don't 
have an islam problem in our own country. Have you seen the new york city calls 
to prayer? Texas and other states having issues with the push for sharia law. 
Thank you a for your honest question. And bosia, i would appreciate susan's 
response to this post on x. Dearbornne henry ford community college professor 
ali akbar shadid, trump made a huge mistake by killing our leader ali kamei 
with are going to continue on his path. We are going to hold his blood and 
ideology and teach it to our children. I assume you i i assume you went and saw 
that tweet. >> yeah. Go back to the first one. , look, i'm you you've posed 
this in the wrong way there. The the the issue, as barbara just explained, is 
that the british have created a capability which is more than a hundred years 
old. You could argue it's older than that called the muslim brotherhood and all 
of the tentacles which come from that which is a british intelligence operation 
created for the purpose of keeping the world in flames. Now it is not that we 
don't have a islam problem. We have a muslim brotherhood problem which lives 
within the universe of islam. We have a problem of the imperial policy of 
unfettered immigration into countries illegal in the united states which we've 
now cut off legal in europe which they're still welcoming which is specifically 
organized to bring in masses of people who have no intention of assimilating 
into the into their several countries and are being used as a battering ram 
against the the the actual cultures. So we've been very clear on that. What we 
what i am absolutely holding my ground on is people who then take the broad 
brush looking at what is happening in britain. Looking at individuals i have i 
didn't look up who that professor was at the university henry ford community 
over in dearbornne. I will when this show is over. You have a problem in the 
united states of people not because they are muslims but because they have 
adopted this imperial version of radical islam and are intent on being and and 
their their controllers are deploying them for that purpose. But the pro the 
big problem that i have is that you're talking you're then taking the rest of 
the patriotic god-fearing americans who practice a different religion than you 
do and throwing them in the camp of terrorists. There was some other thing. Why 
did president trump endorse that terrorist mayor? Well, actually, president 
trump didn't endorse the mayor of ham tramik. The mayor of ham tramik endorsed 
president trump and that was one of the reasons that trump actually took 
michigan. So for all of the you people out there, , who are hysterical about 
sharia law invading your city, i mean, if there is an operation being run in a 
particular area, it should be dealt with. But , no one is pushing sharia law 
down people's throats in dearbornne. You have a muslim community, some of whom 
practice that, some of whom actually are much more liberal in terms of their 
actual social practices. So, it really falls in the same category as the jews 
did it all. , you you take a religion, you take an ethnic background, , it's no 
different than saying blacks are stupid. Honestly, that's what it is, . So 
people who were sitting out there with these broad brushes, , should just take 
a deep breath and then also put yourself again in history throughout the 50s, 
the 60s, the 70s, the 80s, the enemy was communism. Did you ever hear anything 
about sharia law? Did anybody have any problems with the very large peaceful 
integrated muslim community in southeastern michigan? No, you hadn't. You'd 
never heard of any of this. And then the soviet union fell. We no longer had 
that as the enemy. And samuel p. Huntington, a top operative, a very evil 
operative of the british imperial system, writes the book, the clash of 
civilizations. And he basically says, "oh, we need another enemy image." and 
isn't it convenient that the british created the muslim brotherhood and 
everything that spun out from it, which is isis and al qaeda and everything 
else, which if people have studied their history know at various points the 
united states intelligence community and the british intelligence community 
supported so that we would have an enemy image so that we could continue to 
keep everybody at each other's throats. That's what i have to say about that 
today. Thank you, susan. And i wanted to pull up this book, clash of 
civilizations, because this has become one of the leading policies of 
globalization was cited by samuel p. Huntington. We put samuel huntington in 
our in several of our videos already. I think we've mentioned this but this is 
an absolutely key thing to understand as we moved out of the fall of the soviet 
union out of the cold war and into what replaced the cold war which is the 
modern product of globaliz which is the official product of globalization 
coming out of the fall of of communism. So, this was this book. This i guess i 
should i i know my videos are burst. I guess i should be pointing this way. 
This book here absolutely important. Thank you barbara and susan for addressing 
it. And we get we get these two anti-semitic angles every single time we ask 
questions. We could take it every we could make the whole show about this, but 
we don't want to do that. So, thank you everyone. Let me let me do a quick 
round of super chat super chats here. W w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w 
wesley 72, trump's approach will hopefully fix the issues created by the us in 
1979. It's an approach of taking responsibility for failure and creating a 
solution. We couldn't agree more. Thank you from new zealand. Thank you, amanda 
from new zealand. Please make sure you're subscribed to our youtube channel 
here. We do three political briefings a week plus this live show. Leo, leo, 
leo, thank you for joining us. A lot of us believe the brunson case will be 
coming out very soon over the 2020 election that was rigged. Do anything about 
that, barbara? >> the brunson case? >> i i'd rather not comment on it right 
now. I mean, it's it's something that is out there on the side, one of these 
little rabbit holes and and , basically not not not necessarily something that 
i believe in. Okay, so there's your answer, leo. Thank you for joining us 
today. , disastrophe, thank you for joining us. What role does china play in 
regards to the british empire? Is china in with the brits or working on their 
own agenda? I love prometheian updates. We love having you two here, 
datastrophe. So, barbara and susan, quick answer. What role does china play in 
the british empire? And you should realize that china the british played a 
large role in the creation of the chinese communist party. There's a whole 
history behind that. >> yeah, i think that's that's the point. You look, china 
is not a monolith at this point. There are obviously factions. I would not 
stray any further than saying that because i don't have the intelligence that 
could make an intelligent discussion in terms of who is what and whom but i 
think the more important point is and and i think there's a faction which is 
acting in china's interests and i think there are elements that are obviously 
being manipulated by the british but again i wouldn't want to say who is who 
the more important question is the historical one china was one of the 
countries which at the turn of the 20th century wanted to move toward the 
american system of political economy. So did russia and guess what they both 
ended up under communism. Russia a little earlier than china and russia got out 
of it whereas china hasn't. So you have to ask yourself the question maybe 
where did all of this come from? If you have two very major countries who are 
trying to partner with the united states and model their economic development 
on american system policies, in the case of russia, it was count sergey vitta 
who was the economic adviser to the last zar. In china, it was sununyatsen who 
was an open american system advocate and they both ultimately end up falling to 
communism. Who's going to benefit from that? So, , that's what you have to keep 
in mind when you think about these questions. And i think whether trump thinks 
about it in those explicit terms or not, , does he know sununyatsen's history 
in terms of the american system? Does he know about count sergey veta? I don't 
know. Donald trump always surprises me. Maybe he does. But it doesn't matter 
because he comes at it from an american standpoint which is there's a sovereign 
nation there and he recognizes in some form or another how nations have been 
played as pawns on the chessboard and he's saying i'm going to work with the 
forces that represent that sovereign nation. I think that's how he approaches 
it. >> thank you susan. I want to pull up this person's question here because i 
think i just want to hear what people have to think. , logan, , we have 1,400 
years of muslim history. All those eastern lands that were muslim were once 
christian. I disagree respectfully. Would would you to respond to that one? 
Look, think about it this way. All right. I mean, people people are embibing a 
a large amount of really false information from the internet, okay? And they 
want to believe it for whatever reason. , basically muslim civilizations are 
among the most advanced at various times in history of all of mankind. The work 
of plato, for example, was actually transmitted back into europe during the 
dark ages from muslim nations. Okay? And and the issue of how do you deal with 
different cultures? We've always thought about it as what was the highest point 
in any culture of its economic, philosophical and scientific development. All 
right. And how do you actually how did it actually come to be destroyed? It 
differs in various cultures or compromised. And how do you actually invoke that 
for people now? As we try to move into a completely different relationship 
among cultures i highly recommend if you want to think about this from a 
religious standpoint that people pick up the piece by nicholas of kuza called 
the peace of the faith in which he actually talks about the three abrahamic 
religions that's the unity which actually unites us from a religious standpoint 
political islam is what's called political islam. It's very very different from 
that. That's the motherhood muslim brotherhood's creed. And that was done for 
intelligence purposes. That was done for example by zeno brandinski in the 
united states, samuel huntington, bernard lewis, all of them said, "how can we 
take these these muslim countries and use them against the communists?" all 
right. The grand muy of of jerusalem, for example, just to give you an example 
of a clash between the jewish and the muslim base, the grand muy of jerusalem 
was a supporter of adolf hitler during world war ii. , think about that in 
terms of of jewish and muslim relationships. All right, so that's the that's 
the horrible legacy of british intelligence. What was done primarily with all 
of the of the sunni muslims and to a limited extent the shia muslims around the 
clash of civilizations is we threw them into afghanistan because we thought we 
could cause a regime change in russia by igniting the substantial muslim 
populations in russia on his southern flank to overthrow communism. That was 
the entire creation of jihadist muslim terrorism which later came back to bite 
us in the butt on 9/11. , and , the the intelligence relationship to political 
islam to me is really really represented by an email which was released by 
wikileaks involving jake sullivan to hillary clinton describing isis and syria 
saying remember isis is on our side in this one. Okay, does that give you a 
sense of the manipulations here? , so , if if you want to learn history, read 
actual history. It's out there. Don't rely on what people say history is on the 
internet. >> yeah. And i would just add one other thing. , go back to the 
post-war period. You had a most of the nations in the middle east were secular 
, and allowed complete freedom of religion. Egypt, syria, libya you had 
christians, muslims, jews living in a secular society. And now what has 
happened since then? The secular governments were overthrown by us and british 
intelligence in order to put in theocracies. So, , people just have to 
reccalibrate where this is coming from. >> thank you, barbara and susan, and 
thank you, david, for your honest question. I appreciate you sending that at 
the that moment. Okay. , we're gonna let's see. >> why don't we get to the 
midterms? >> midterms. Yes. Let me get rid of this comment, though. Okay. The 
midterms. I think i had that lined up. Number 14. Oops, wrong one. There we go. 
Thank you, mark, for this one here. With the north carolina and texas primary 
results now in as it appears to excuse me, with the north carolina and texas 
primary results now in, it appears to be alarming. I know both susan and 
barbara have been doing this for a long time, so i would appreciate your input 
on the results. How alarming is this? And what should be our course of action 
to avoid defeat in the midterms? Okay, so north carolina, so democrats win with 
about 200,000 more voters. And in texas, democrats win with almost 236,000 more 
voters. And to make it worse, the republicans now have a runoff to worry about. 
The saying republicans don't vote in primaries or midterms seems to be just 
making excuses. Also, who are the republicans holding up the save america act? 
Do we need to mass message them and their donors? Thanks for all you do. Thanks 
for joining us in this fight, mark. So, susan, barbara, your thoughts. >> well, 
i looked at i had a chance to look at texas in a little bit more detail before 
we got on. I didn't get a chance to look at north carolina. , actually the vote 
totals of both democrats and republicans were bigger in 2026 than in 2022, but 
the democratic vote total was much bigger. , so it's not republicans didn't 
turn out, but more democrats turned out than republicans. Here's my hypothesis. 
, and i think our friends in texas might have have some agreement with this. , 
you have a severely compromised republican party in texas. You have the bush 
influence. We know from our people on the ground that many, many, many 
republican candidates were being told, "don't run on donald trump's record, , 
run on the basis of, , you got to clean up your local dog catcher or something 
that." or as we saw in the special election in the state senate district 
outside of austin about a month ago, about five weeks ago, you had a democrat 
that that essentially took trump's economic message. It was a trade unionist 
who went out there and campaigned about jobs and the economy and the dignity of 
labor, which by the way are all donald trump's themes. And you had a republican 
candidate who outspent the democrat. I think it was three to one. Barbara can 
correct me and just went out and hit these social hot button issues. So, that 
you already had the writing on the wall in terms of that election. So, what you 
saw overall in the state of texas is the democrats are making this midterm 
about donald trump and yeah, they're getting people to come out and vote 
because they're making the midterm about donald trump. What happens if the 
republicans don't if the republicans say, "oh, it's not about trump. I'm afraid 
of donald trump because it's radioactive, so i'm going to go campaign on boys 
and girls bathrooms." which, by the way, is a fight i think, , mentally we've 
already won in this country. So, people say, "same old, same old." on the 
republican side, we didn't get the enthu again, you you actually had more votes 
than 2022, but compared to the democrats, it was less. And and this is the 
first time i think i saw since 1990 that the democrats outperformed in a 
primary, , with this margin. So, the problem that we're running into and and i 
haven't had a chance to look at north carolina, so i'm not going to i'm not 
going to transfer the analysis to north carolina. The problem that we have in 
texas, , is a a a limp republican party which doesn't want to carry the banner 
of donald trump out there. Now, we do what's called a midterm boot camp. It's 
an every other week live zoom discussion. And adam, maybe you can put the 
prometheian pack. There you go. This is hosted by our political action arm 
prometheian pack which has a separate website than prometheian action and 
you'll see where you can sign up for the boot camps on that on that page. But 
about i don't know maybe six weeks ago we had two texas candidates on our boot 
camp. One running for congress, a young man in his 20s running for congress for 
the first time, , alexander hail and, , helen xiao running for state rep, both 
in similar areas of relatively lowincome dem he heavily democratic areas. They 
got on our boot camp and they said, "look, we're going into these areas and 
we're campaigning on trump's economic policies." helen won. She's the state rep 
candidate now and she's running against one of the most powerful crazy liberal 
democrats in the state house and she will be campaigning on these kinds of 
policies. And alex made it into a runoff for congress and our friends down 
there think he has a good chance of winning the runoff. Again, campaigning on 
donald trump's policies. If the republicans do not do this, they will have 
their asses handed to them. And that is our job. We have to build a fire under 
every single candidate out there that we will support them because they are 
taking the point on donald trump's economic revolution. So that's my analysis 
of what happened in texas. Yeah, i think you i think you're seeing the fact 
that that the democrats have a machine in place which actually turns out huge 
numbers of voters in both those areas. These, , texas i am frankly not worried 
about in terms of of the ultimate control of the congress or the senate. 
Because the people who emerged as this guy on the on the democratic side thinks 
that there's six different varieties of of human being sex sexually he thinks 
that god is is a a binary god >> you mean the senate >> rico right in terms of 
in terms of the senate race i i just don't think in terms of texas that's going 
to get very far no matter what the republican party does in terms of sitting on 
its butt. North carolina is a little bit more differentiated in the sense that 
michael watley the lead senate candidate is pretty new to the game and he's 
running against a former governor and the democrats really think they have a 
shot there. So you have tons and tons and tons of money pouring in and what i 
would suspect is that you have a republican party sitting on his butt and the 
you can't discount the efficacy of the media operations which as we said before 
designed to say trump has already lost the midterms why should i turn out 
pessimism is the order of the today trump is losing losing losing these 
influencers. It's very small group of people out there who are essentially 
running around doing what i call black pill polling saying everybody's losing 
interest etc. These things can be cured if we get people excited about the 
economic transformation actually taking place, which is huge. But nobody else 
is really talking about that except prometheian action and the white house. And 
, you don't see it in any of the media or any place else. That's reality and 
that's what all of us here have to convey. The results and the consequences of 
not doing it are spectacularly bad for the nation. How can you say that you're 
america first if you really are looking for us to lose the house and the senate 
and for the impeachment of donald trump to take place? How can you possibly say 
that? I say get off your damn ass and get out and actually put your mind to 
work to realize this agenda. Trump is transforming the world and the country in 
a way which will bring about i believe a new renaissance of mankind. We're 
coming out of a dark age, a very dark pessimistic age and optimism isn't 
something that people are used to in terms of how they think or how they 
operate. But i would strongly suggest that every morning, which is what i do, i 
try and think about my old friend, the philosopher livets, who kept insisting 
that god made the best of all possible worlds. And i say, h, how is that true? 
And how is it not true? I have that debate with myself every single morning. 
Really, how is it true and not true in terms of the future? And if you take 
that exercise, that mental exercise to heart and look at what the president is 
actually doing, you'll find the energy to get off the couch and get out and 
talk to your friends and neighbors about voting in the midterm elections. 
Straight republican ticket, no matter what it is, even if you have to hold your 
nose, because trump will have leverage if he does what many people consider to 
be impossible and wins the midterms. That's how i'd answer the question. >> and 
and here's your here's your action item to get off your couch. Prometheian pack 
has produced a half-page flyer which is already we've sold out the first two 
printings of this faster than we could keep up with. And i know for a fact that 
one of the places where we are getting the strongest response from activists 
purchasing this, going to meetings, getting it out is actually north carolina. 
So, this is a half-page flyer which is is the basis for going out and starting 
to talk to people about what this president is actually doing. , the first 
page, as you see here, takes a quote from the president. He called it a 
republican new deal, which i thought was really quite unique because it 
challenges people to think about what he's doing not from the standpoint of old 
wall street republican talking points, but how do you uplift and rebuild the 
country for the task and the mission ahead? And then the second side is a track 
record as of about a month ago of what the president had already unleashed in 
terms of industry jobs taking on the big financial conglomerates the health 
care industry and the meatacking industry and the banks who have been buying up 
single family homes. The president is taking on all of these things. It 
actually is a new deal in republican form. So, you can go to the prometheium 
pack website. Adam has put the code up there and order copies of this and start 
organizing with it. You can get a hundred copies, you can get 2,000 copies, you 
can get more if you need. , and recruit other people to to spread the good word 
because again, if we put this on the top of the ticket, remember why we voted 
for him in 2024? We voted for him because the the council on foreign relations, 
the globalists have been carrying out deliberately the control disintegration 
of our economy for 50 years. They said it, we've documented it. And you've 
lived it. And we put donald trump back in office in 2024 because he was 
committed to reversing it. He couldn't do much in his first term. His second 
term, they're doing it. They're carrying out an economic revolution. And people 
who are sitting there saying, "i'm not going to vote for him because he's run 
by israel," or, "i'm not going to vote because we still have voting machines." 
i mean, , it it's it's surrendering in the middle of the war because the going 
is tough or, , enemy propaganda has told you something which you've swallowed 
in the middle of the fog of war. So, this is your immediate ammunition right 
now. I encourage people on this call in the united states. , it's geared for 
the midterms, of course. We love our friends from australia and canada and 
britain, but probably not quite appropriate for you at this point. But for our 
american , patriot patriots, get copies of this, circulate it, help us spread 
the actual good news, and pull people out of the matrix. >> thank you, barbara. 
And susan. And just for a little bit more context, we have two organizations. 
We have prometheian action and prometheian pack. The difference is prometheian 
pack is a federal political action committee and we can spend money. The the 
pac had prometheian pack, which is who's doing this leaflet, we can directly 
intervene into federal elections in the united states. So that's why we have 
two vehicles. We can capture international support with prometheian action. So 
our youtube back channel is under prometheian action. Capture support from all 
over the world and our newsletter is also prometheian action. So people all 
over the world can support our activity. But then when it comes to operating on 
the elections, that's where prometheian impact comes in. So just as a little 
bit of clarification so people have an idea of what we're trying to do. All 
right. So, the link is there and we also have a qr code so you can check that 
out too, but i'm going to pull that away. You can just you can go back and re 
rewind a little bit if you need to see those again. Okay. Next questions. Let's 
i'm going to take questions on h i know. Yes, we're going to take another 
midterm question on the rhinos versus independence. That's right. So, thank 
you, michael, for this question here. On your show of the 28th of february, a 
person asked for help in the in their governor's race because there was he was 
an independent and he said in so many words, don't vote for an independent 
because of this reason. Well, what is what is a rhino? Not all independents are 
bad. I had to run as an independent in the state of north dakota where i was a 
republican for the longest time. I didn't stop being a republican. They changed 
me. I ran against doug brum and it start and it it stated that i am the only 
one in the 2020 governor's race that supported donald trump. So what they did 
at the gop was if you ran as an independent, you can't run for seven years as a 
republican. I have evidence that they have cheated in that election. Send it to 
send it to voting division and other state agencies and federal agencies. No 
one has responded. Then in 2024, a representative kelly armstrong for governor. 
Even in our tv debate, i even stated, "i am i am the only one on stage and 
support donald trump." , he would not. And if you would to verify all of what 
i'm saying, i can send it all to you. As of now, it looks i can't run for 
governor of north dakota for seven more years. As a republican, i spent years 
on the resolutions committee fighting for our freedom in this state. I believe 
in our constitution, bill of rights, and our gop resolutions. Thank you, 
michael coachman. >> well, thank you for that, michael, and thank you for being 
out there on the front lines fighting as as you have. Look, we're in a very 
historically specific situation right now in terms of these midterms. And it 
does come down to arithmetic. , donald trump has to hold the house and the 
senate. And certainly in those races for house and senate, we have no choice. 
We have to hold the line. Now, part of the fight is what's taking place in the 
republican primaries right now. Let's get the best republican candidates to 
run. , there's a big question in terms of the senate race in texas. You have 
cornin who is a rhino and paxton who is a trump supporter very close. Trump put 
out a tweet yesterday saying we can't have a bruising runoff. One of you's got 
to back off and i'm going to and i if you don't i'm going to endorse somebody 
which he really doesn't want to do. Because we gota we gota we got to close 
ranks behind the the fact that we have to hold the senate and we have to hold 
the house. So for those of you who still have primaries out there make sure we 
don't get rhinos. Now in terms of independence if independence at this 
particular moment in time and i'm i'm not addressing your situation. You made a 
you made a strategic decision to run as you ran and that was courageous. It is 
the case that state rules often do then basically blacklist you for a num 
number of years. , that's that's the battlefield that you're fighting on. But , 
in many cases, here in michigan, we have an independent running for governor. 
It's the former mayor of detroit who's the darling of the world economic forum. 
So, we haven't chosen our republican candidate yet. The democratic candidate is 
unl is likely to be part of the current witchy triumvirate under gretchen 
whitmer. So you have an independent in this race. What if the independent pulls 
votes from the republican and we end up with another witch running michigan? So 
that's my concern about independence in this particular 2026 configuration, 
especially as it relates to the house and the senate. , , again, you made a 
decision from a a , from from your vantage point of what you could best do, and 
it sounds you did best represent president trump in these debates, but yes, you 
are now stuck with the consequences of that given the the rules that you have. 
I would just say keep fighting whether it's as a candidate or not. Get our 
flyers. Go out there and build a bigger movement in north dakota, whether 
you're a candidate or not to actually create the support which is needed for 
the president at this point. And in terms of doug bergam, , i wasn't a big fan 
of him either, but so many people who have been pulled into the president's 
cabinet, they are be, , at least temporarily, they're being transformed as 
instruments of donald trump's policy. >> thank you. I wanted to resonate on 
something you just mentioned, susan, that i think the the thing about building 
your own movement in your state is absolutely key and politic. You have to 
realize, especially as the these generations the gen z and the gen alphas that 
are coming up under the millennials where their world is even more defined by 
social media and social media apps. Building an effective social media presence 
is going to be incredibly effective for all political campaigns moving forward. 
And it's only going to become a bigger issue as a generation z and a generation 
alpha comes. Politics is going to be increasingly decided by people who can 
control large swaths of attention on these platforms by making content every 
day. So that's what i try to tell people. It's if you want to get your message 
out there, you have to you have to basically teach yourself and discover how to 
use social message social media to get that messaging out to the world. So, i 
would also and also make sure you get in contact with us. Are you on our our 
midterm on our midterm boot camp? Probably. Okay. Thank you, barbara and susan. 
So, next set of questions here. Let's go to the us u uk us special relationship 
because i think that is another topic especially after this whole lloyd's thing 
and the british insurers pulling out of of the war insurance for the straight 
of hormuz. Okay. So, we're going to take these three questions which all go 
into special relationships. Can you give me more details about why great 
britain in and the us have a diminishing relationship? Details, please. Thank 
you, gary. , thank you, evelyn. Is the term special relationship a euphemism 
for something more sinister? And does it apply to the uk's relationship with 
iran over the past decades? The uk's relationship with the us or both? Thank 
you, evelyn. And a third one here, brian. Were previous presidents fully aware 
of this special relationship and the spec the significant impact of the british 
empire on american financial and political policies. Thank you brian for your 
question. So susan and barbara, what's the larger role of the special 
relationship that everyone's been talking about between the united states and 
the united kingdom? Well, this is really the the nature of globalization. 
That's what you're really talking about. The the so-called idea that sovereign 
nation states should cease to exist in the world and instead we should have a 
grand global empire run by the financial elites. That's what we've been living 
through. , and that's what the british, what you might call the third british 
empire after world war ii, , was set up to accomplish. After roosevelt, almost 
every american president became a captive of this empire, primarily through the 
relationship of our intelligence services, but also through the complete 
destruction of an independent american cultural and intellectual tradition. In 
other words, our history, our vibrant actual history, our unique historical 
presence in the world was wiped out. And basically we came to believe in our 
colleges and universities that john john lockach and other british philosophers 
were the people who actually invented the constitution of the united states. 
Untrue, mad, bad answer. That's not true at all but you wouldn't find the 
actual phil philosophy of the american system anywhere in the economics or 
history books from the last 20 30 years in the united states. The special 
relationship is basically the idea that our two intelligence services the cia 
and mi6 and all of things which flow from that are absolutely joined from the 
hip and our foreign policy is a foreign policy jointly set by everybody who's 
part of nato and the so-called atlantic alliance. We gave up our sovereignty, 
in other words, to actually be part of what was called the anglo-american 
empire. Donald trump is erasing all of that. And it can't be emphasized enough. 
His national security policy says what? The american worker is the metric of 
everything i do. Will it actually prosper or make richer or more developed the 
american worker or will it he has been brutalized in the last period through 
outsourcing, trade policy and other things destroy his creativity? That's the 
center of what he says is his national security policy. Same with defense 
policy. Is it in america's interest? Why is it in america's interest? Take the 
present war in iran. If iran got a nuclear missile or a nuclear bomb, think 
about the fact that it chants every day in the moss, death to america, death to 
the united states. Think about that. Do you actually want a fanatical religious 
regime which actually seeks martyrdom as a primary religious tenant? Do you 
actually want that state to have a nuclear weapon? The answer has to be 
absolutely not. Now, we can talk about, , various ways of trying to deal with 
that. Presidents have come up with various answers. Barack obama gave away the 
store. He essentially didn't insist in reality on on anything and gave them 
tons of money to develop because he was if in my estimation an actual political 
supporter of the muslim brotherhood. That's the reality and that was in a 
certain way how he was played as part of the special relationship. So trump is 
just completely upending that entire notion. , and , you can't get away from 
it. , in the in the biden administration, william burns, who was the head of 
the cia and the head of mi6, actually came out in public in a in a interview 
for the for the financial times and actually said, "we're joined at the hip." 
okay. Our two intelligence services decide what we're going to do in the world 
based on who has the better operational capacity in any given region in the 
world. Think about that. We're not sovereign in terms of our military and 
intelligence decisions. Think about trump's first term who ran the russia gate 
operation. It was the british. So, it's also somewhat personal for him in terms 
of how he actually thinks about this. Where did this come from and how does it 
work? And he's dismantling this entire relationship. Yeah. And i'd also just 
add go back well on this question i want to ask people how many of you have 
heard the following. Britain is our oldest and dearest ally. I mean, that's 
just been out there for decades and decades and decades now. Just take a beat. 
This is the 250th anniversary of what? Our declaration of independence against 
the british empire. And then we had that little thing called an american 
revolutionary war where you had other countries supporting us france. Katherine 
the great set up the league of armed neutrality to make sure that other 
european countries didn't come in on the side of the british. So, but but that 
phrase has been out there for decades. Our oldest and our dearest ally. It's 
just insane the way that they, , they they get inside people's heads with these 
nonsensical constructs that people then, , basically operate off of. And that 
and and that is really the nature of the special relationship. Now the details 
about why great britain in the united states has a dim diminishing 
relationship. Well just go look at the oval office q&a with president trump 
when the german chancellor merittz was sitting next to him. I mean he just 
smashed the british on a number of occasions. Obviously the current iran war, 
their green policies, their immigration policies, but across the board, , aside 
from what the president is saying specifically about the government of britain, 
everything that he is doing is the opposite of british imperial policy, 
starting with tariffs. That is the most fundamental break with the british that 
you could have. The free trade system was the cornerstone of the british 
empire. Go back to adam smith. Go back to john lock. Go back to all the british 
liberal philosophers and the economic policy which they pursued. It was based 
on a free trade policy whereby through their control of the money or as we've 
discussed today through shipping lanes, through the rules of the game, they 
used free trade to keep nations backward and impoverished so that they could 
loot those countries for the benefit of the british east india company, the 
city of london and so on and so forth. The the the best weapon that we that has 
ever existed to begin to break that that imperial control is tariffs, which is 
why presidents abraham lincoln and william mckinley got assassinated. Because 
tariffs is, , is is the is the baseball bat to begin to break british imperial 
control. So if you look at everything this administration has done, it's taken 
the the the what is both the post-war order but go all the way back to the 
british imperial order in terms of perpetual wars, in terms of economic 
development, in terms of using tariffs. We've rejected perpetual wars. We've 
rejected the green agenda. We're using tariffs. We're fostering economic 
development around the world. Were rechaning credit flows into actual 
productive activity. That is the details about the diminishing relationship 
with the british. Thank you, barbara and susan. And thank you for everyone 
who's still watching us on youtube and x.com. Everyone on youtube, if you could 
just drop us a quick here, that'd be really helpful. And on x.com. If you 
haven't yet shared the video, please give us a share over there. Thank you so 
much. Okay, still have plenty of questions to go here. Thank you everyone. , 
i'm going to take some more here from our newsletter. I'm going to go with 
questions around the doj and judges because this is another big theme that we 
get all the time. So, let's start with this one here. Will this justice 
department ever be able to bring charges and get convictions given the 
predominantly liberal judges that routinely dismiss cases on frivolous 
procedural issues? Yes. Let's let's start this one because because the the 
other two are a little bit more specific. Well, yeah. That's what that's what 
why we have a creative justice department and why they're trying to basically 
get around two jurisdictions which you'd have to basically charge these people 
in since the conspiracy to overthrow the president occurred in washington dc. 
So you got a choice of two jurisdictions predominantly. You can figure out a 
way to get into the eastern district of virginia. But you've also got dc, both 
of which are rabid anti-trump tds locations. So much so that , most prosecutors 
would tell you that if you go to a grand jury, you can actually , indict a ham 
sandwich. That's not even true in terms of washington dc at this point. If the 
trump justice department is bringing the indictment, i have great hope for a 
grand jury, which is now going on in fort pierce florida around the actual raid 
on mara lago, which is a hook to give them jurisdiction on the entirety of the 
coup d'et, which was run against the american president. Starting with russia 
gate and going forward. So, i think that you're probably going to see something 
there. And , the rest of it is very very difficult because the frivolous 
procedural issues which you mention happen to be the actual rules of criminal 
procedure and that gets in your way because that's a neutral thing which even 
the supreme court has upheld. I look to actually seeing huge exposure of 
everything that happened. I think that's the first prere prerequisite of what 
we have to have. People think well we know all this already. No we don't. We 
really don't. We don't know it already. We're still firing people at the 
justice department who are actually involved in in horrible actions. And our 
only remedy really is to fire them at this point. , we're we're we're in a 
situation where we have to ensure that the people who conducted this coup never 
get in power again. That comes back to the midterms. Do you think that if the 
democrats actually take the midterms that we're going to have any prosecutions 
at all from the standpoint of of the ability of of those things to actually go 
forward? If if trump is actually successfully impeached, that's what that's 
where the battle is right now. And i get a little bit we know what we know what 
the battlefield looks in terms of the courts. We've known that for a long time. 
After all, the whole phony russia gate thing went completely forward. The 
general flynn case went completely forward. All of that stuff took place in 
washington dc. That shows you that we have a deeply corrupted judicial system. 
So what do you do if you're in that situation? Well, you have to make it a 
ground truth for people what just happened. You have to expose every aspect of 
it. I don't care if it's classified or not because shining all total sunlight 
on this thing and bringing more people into what actually happened to our 
country and why it's completely illegal becomes an essential fighting point in 
terms of the midterms and in terms of having a republic at all. So that's how 
i'd answer the question. Thank you, barbara. Okay, i'm gonna take i'm gonna 
take an interesting question here. This one number okay, it's a little bit 
long. I apologize, but i think this is a good this is a very good question. I 
saw people already discussing this stuff this in the chat earlier. Warning, 
long- winded post before i asked the question. In the summer of 79, i 
encountered lynon larouche for president table outside the at&t office in 
albany. I was returning my phone. Remember when we rented phones back then? 
Prior to my move for la for dental school. The information intrigued me and i 
took a bunch and read it through. However, due to the overwhelming workload of 
dental school, i soon forgot about it. Then a few years later, i heard lyndon 
larouche's name again, but in a very disparaging way. He was a cook, a 
conspiracy theorist. Paid no attention to the man. Being naive, i took that at 
face value and never thought about him again. Then i encountered prometheian 
action a few months ago. The information is eyeopening to say the least, but 
something about it struck an old chord. Hm. This sounds lyndon larouche, i 
thought. And i scrolled around your website until i found the connection. I 
rolled my eyes so hard and almost quit. But then i remembered that those who 
are but those who are, they only call people cooks and conspiracy theorists 
when they are getting way too close to the truth or in fact have exposed the 
truth. So i stayed and i'm glad that i did. It has been a bit of a 
gut-wrenching experience for me, however, as i have an old fa i'm an 
old-fashioned i have fashioned myself a libertarian steeped in misian 
economics, which still has much vility to it. And even being a a monthly 
contributor to the mises institute for many years now. I have brought into 
their vision the civil war, the south was right, and lincoln not flattering a 
dictator and a and tyrant. You could say, "i have been suffering from cognitive 
differences, dissonance, as i sort this all out." it's very good actually. It's 
very good if you can realize that you're suffering from cognitive dissonance. 
It's people that are suffering from cognitive dissonance and don't know what 
it's actually doing to them. So, that's good. So, you're fine. , earlier this 
month, i joined prometheian actions paying member as a firebringer. Thank you 
for rediscovering us. Thank you so much. My question was the assassination 
attempt on ronald reagan due to his own plan to bring back the american system 
and was his own failure to do to do or his own failure to do so due to his 
surrounding himself with swamp creatures as what happened to trump in his first 
term. It seems to me that what's happening right now is an echo of the past 
from eight years of the reagan administration. Reagan was also pillaried in the 
media. Please advise. Thank you. Ps marvel comics should get the fans to those 
who are to those to who are they? Okay, sorry about that. To who are they? 
Thank you, zippy, for this question. Thank you for rediscovering us again. All 
great ideas happen that. You need you go this path of rediscovery, 
rediscovering it over and over. Okay. But this last question on reagan, was 
there something more to reagan there? Was he misled by by his cabinet? What was 
going on there with reagan? >> well, i'll i'll start and then barbara can chime 
in from, , the other side of of the combat that we were engaged in. , we should 
raise at this point since zippy has brought up our evolution out of the 
movement that was founded by lyndon larouche that prometheian action was 
created a couple of years ago by those of us who saw in donald trump the 
potential to actually accomplish what larouche was trying to do. A number of 
our former colleagues have stayed in the organization headed by larouche's 
widow helga zeppel which we have nothing to do with. We need to always put that 
on the record when this question comes up. But the the question of reagan is 
very interesting. I was in washington dc as part of our dc team in the late 70s 
throughout the 1980s and was very much in the middle of larouche's relationship 
to ronald reagan and the behindthecenes combat that was going on at the time. 
And i would just say the parallel to today and i'll go through a little bit of 
it, but the parallel to today is that with donald trump, it's out in the open. 
And by the fight being out in the open in the way that it is, he's recruited 
millions and millions and millions of more people into the cause because they 
can see very clearly what was going on. Now obviously ronald reagan was elected 
in 1980 and one of the critical factors is what people historically call the 
reagan democrats which is bluecollar workers and others who saw in the batshit 
crazy jimmy carter administration which was run by the trilateral commission 
i.e. The globalists something which was antithetical to their interests and 
they voted for ronald reagan. Linda larouche was in dialogue with reagan in 
particular in the with the transition team prior to reagan getting into office 
and there were two areas that we were in intense discussions on. One is what 
president trump now calls the golden dome, what president reagan announced as 
the strategic defense initiative, and what we had pioneered as beam weapon 
defense. In other words, end the strategic insanity of mutual and assured 
destruction. Where both superpowers hold each other hostage to thermonuclear 
weapons and you keep your fingers crossed that the world won't be incinerated 
to a doctrine of actual defense which these new physical principles gave us the 
opportunity to do. The other area that larouche was in discussion with with the 
transition team was a focus more and more on shifting the economic policy away 
just from wall street austerity and back to toward an emphasis on more of a 
productive economy. I can't say that there were a lot of people around at the 
time who were talking about the american system. It was a much more watered 
down i don't even know if i want to say version of it called supply side 
economics which is at least focus on what's coming out as opposed to what's 
coming in. If people remember what happened less than three months into 
reagan's administration he was almost assassinated. If people remember what 
happened prior to that actually i should have started with this. I was at the 
republican convention in 1980 in detroit when reagan won the nomination and 
then promptly picked george bush as his vice presidential candidate. His 
campaign manager, then senator paul laxalt, , who was a real reaganite, , an 
early american first, , he walked out of the convention and flew back home to 
nevada at that point because he knew that reagan had been compromised by the 
powers that be in terms of compromising putting bush into office. Reagan was 
essentially told, "if you don't make him your vice president, you're an 
outsider. You have no chance of winning. You need us, so you bring bush in." so 
reagan did that and i'm sure his intention and very possibly his capability 
would have been to run roughshot over the bush crowd and carry out his own for 
his own policies except they almost killed him 3 weeks in and obviously he was 
out of commission for a long time. Never really regained i think control over 
his administration. So what you saw with the reagan administration, especially 
as it went along, more and more and more bush globalist control, he was able to 
do a couple of historic things, including announce the strategic defense 
initiative and hold our own in some key summits with gorbachoff in terms of our 
strategic interests. But that was the nature of that administration and that 
was probably the best that we've had since john kennedy. So the, , there there 
is a certain parallel except that this administration, especially now in its 
second term, is much more unified, much more conscious of the nature of the 
fight. And guess what? You have people in this administration talking about the 
american system by name. You had jameson greer at davos recently, secretary 
bessant in a speech talked about alexander hamilton and the american system, 
and it still works. So we are in a completely different universe than the 
embattled world that president reagan was in. And and i will add one thing 
since we're coming up to the close of this. The fundamental strategic 
difference between then and now and barb barbara and i have been in the 
trenches. We now have a large portion of the american population on the real 
battlefield fighting the real fight. It's not just a president john kennedy or 
ronald reagan trying to do it by themselves behind the scenes. We have the 
american people, the maga movement on the battlefield with us as long as you 
don't get distracted by all the crap in social media. So barbara may want to 
add her own insights from that period which were a little different than mine. 
>> i not that much. I mean the problem was the fatal decision to bring george 
hw bush into the administration and the vice president basically ran things in 
large part behind the president's back. Iran contra being one of those major 
bush operations. There were lots of other such operations. So, you know, i i 
think that was the fatal flaw there. , on top of not really understanding the 
american system, which donald trump clearly does. Thank you everyone. Gone for 
about two hours. We'll be back. Excuse me. We'll be back next week at 11:00 
a.m. The same time. If you want to stay in contact with us, you can subscribe 
to our youtube channel here. Hit the bell notification. Our next political 
update will be sometime saturday afternoon. And if you really want to stay in 
contact with us, please get our free newsletter. The link's in the description. 
I know we're going to send you an email every day. Filter our email something 
if it's too much but get our email because that allows us to stay in contact 
with you less through the it's less controlled through google and youtube email 
generally reaches more people so thank you everyone thank you very much 
everyone for tuning in thank you barbara and susan and we'll see everyone next 
week thank
